# My C++ Learning Journey

Welcome! This is a personal journal to track my C++ programming progress as a complete beginner in tech. I update this with lessons learned, practice projects (which is in my cpp project repo) , challenges, and thoughts.


I started learning how to code on c++ on may 18, 2025.

On that day, I started studying how to use c++ as well as some things about tech in general. As I studied, I learned some syntax and control structures including using namespaces such as std, including header files such as iostream, declaring a variable type, making the main function, declaring variable types and their values, cout/cin, return 0 statement, conditional statements and for loop. After learning about all those syntax and control structures, I decided to make my first c++ project, which is a basic calculator.

On the same day, I started to make the basic calculator, at first I felt really overwhelmed, I felt like I was going crazy just by the thoughts of starting this project. I didn't know what to do, I didn't know what to put where, I basically didn't know anything which made me feel doubts about which college course I will choose. Despite all those overwhelming thoughts and feelings, I knew one thing, it's that I must start now. So I proceeded to make my basic calculator, and after 15mins++, I finally finished writing the code, but I was slapped by reality, my code had a lot of bugs that hindered my program from working. I felt really disappointed, it made my doubts even worse, I was thinking of giving up because I really didn't know what to do because I refuse to ask chatgpt for help. But I tried, and after some time, I finally finished debugging, I finally made my first c++ code work, I was overjoyed, I felt really good about myself. Although it wasn't a perfect program because of some issues that might occur if user doesn't use it as I intended it to be used, because if they input 0 as the divisor, the program won't do it's job, but I was still very happy because it is still an accomplishment, and later that day, I fixed that problem by puting another if statement inside the if else statement of division so that the program will have options of printing out the correct result, or printing out invalid if they were gonna input 0 in the divisor, then after that I also added loops so I can keep using the calculator again and again. Although it isn't perfect because I only know the for loop so my calculator just loops again and again depending on what value I declare in the for loop.

Then the next day may 19, 2025 immediately after I woke up, I decided to make another project which is ATM simulation because I could already invision how I'm gonna write it's code which is really amazing for me because I'm someone who had no idea how to even start writing a code. And so I started coding, after some time I finally finished it. Luckily, this program didn't have much bugs and I was able to debugged It immediately, then right after I decided to make another project, which is a mini quiz   (I'm taking a rest before continuing to write).
